# Adobe GDPR Cautions

* Adobe acts as a data processor for any personal data it processes and stores as part of providing services. As a data processor, Adobe only processes personal data in accordance with your company's permission and instructions (for example, as set out in your agreement with Adobe). Correspondingly, Adobe does not provide consent management services. As the data controller, please review your consent management strategy with internal stakeholders.

* API coding is required to send Adobe GDPR requests. Every Adobe solution and API does presently or will offer a solution that provides a [Data Subject](gdpr-terminology.md#DataSubject) with access to all [personal data](gdpr-terminology.md#PII) in human-readable form upon request of a customer. Each Adobe solution and API works in conjunction with the Adobe GDPR API to maintain an audit trail of each request and associated compliance adherence.

* Deploying JavaScript tag is strongly recommended. Adobe Experience Cloud provides GDPR-ready JavaScript APIs for data controllers. The Adobe Privacy JavaScript library is used to retrieve all the IDs generated by the Adobe Experience Cloud libraries for a specific domain.

* Mobile SDK updates are recommended if you have mobile apps that use our SDKs. The Adobe Mobile SDKs provide General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) - ready APIs for Controllers that allow users to retrieve locally-stored identities and to set opt-in/opt-out status flags for data collection and transmission

* If you want to access personal data and/or delete personal data, send two different requests to the GDPR API -- one for accessing your data and another for deletion

* As good partners we'd like to remind you that you should engage with all your processors in passing “delete me” notices to them 

* Data Subjects are responsible for opting out of cross-site advertising, independent of any "delete" requests, i.e. the customer is responsible for doing this using the customer's opt-out tools.

* For Data Subjects, GDPR requests must be issued from every device that has an associated ID

* As a processor, Adobe processes all IDs controllers send. If controllers do not send Adobe related IDs, nothing is returned. However, Adobe encourages controllers to send IDs Adobe can process using the Adobe Privacy JS tag.
